---
title: "Critical Test Item Selection in Mobile Manufacturing Process"
collection: talks
type: "Presentation"
permalink: /talks/2021-06-02-talk-1
venue: "2021 Korean Institute of Industrial Engineers"
date: 2021-06-02
location: "Jeju-do, South Korea"
---

In the recent competitive landscape of the mobile phone market, companies are striving for dominance by incorporating advanced features such as 5G, foldable screens, and high-resolution cameras. 
This trend has increased product complexity and necessitated additional inspection processes to verify these enhanced functionalities, leading to the expansion of inspection equipment in factories. 
This continuous addition imposes a significant burden on companies. 
This study proposes a process to enhance productivity without the need for additional production lines and inspection equipment by estimating some inspection items traditionally dependent on measurement and inspection through modeling.
Firstly, we utilize clustering models to group similar inspection items and select the optimal key items for each group. 
There is a high correlation among inspection items in the production process, and through this method, we identify only the essential inspection items that must be measured. 
Secondly, we train a model to predict the remaining inspection items using the key inspection items. Ultimately, the prediction values are used to forecast product defects. 
The effectiveness of the proposed method is demonstrated by collecting and analyzing real radio frequency inspection data.
