---
title: "Self-Supervised Contrastive Learning to Predict Alzheimer's Disease Progression with 3D Amyloid-PET"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2022-10-15-talk-1
venue: "INFORMS 17th Workshop on Data Mining & Decision Analytics"
date: 2022-10-15
location: "Indianapolis, Indiana, United States"
---

Early diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is an important task that facilitates the development of treatment and prevention strategies and may potentially improve patient outcomes. 
Neuroimaging has shown great promise, including the amyloid-PET which measures the accumulation of amyloid plaques in the brain – a hallmark of AD. 
It is desirable to train end-to-end deep learning models to predict the progression of AD for individuals at early stages based on 3D amyloid-PET. 
However, commonly used models are trained in a fully supervised learning manner and they are inevitably biased toward the given label information. 
To this end, we propose a self-supervised contrastive learning method to predict AD progression with 3D amyloid-PET. 
It uses unlabeled data to capture general representations underlying the images. 
As the downstream task is given as classification, unlike the general self-supervised learning problem that aims to generate task-agnostic representations, we also propose a loss function to utilize the label information in the pre-training. 
To demonstrate the performance of our method, we conducted experiments on the Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) dataset. 
The results confirmed that the proposed method is capable of providing appropriate data representations, resulting in accurate classification.
