---
title: "A Mutual Knowledge Distillation-Empowered AI Framework for Early Detection of Alzheimer's Disease Using Incomplete Multi-Modal Images"
collection: talks
type: "Presentation"
permalink: /talks/2023-10-14-talk-1
venue: "INFORMS 18th Workshop on Data Mining & Decision Analytics"
date: 2022-10-15
location: "Phoenix, Arizona, United States"
---

Early detection of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is crucial to ensure timely interventions and optimize treatment outcomes for patients. 
While integrating multi-modal neuroimages, such as MRI and PET, has shown great promise, limited research has been done to effectively handle incomplete multi-modal image datasets in the integration. 
To this end, we propose a deep learning-based framework that employs Mutual Knowledge Distillation (MKD) to jointly model different sub-cohorts based on their respective available image modalities. 
In MKD, the model with more modalities (e.g., MRI and PET) is considered a teacher while the model with fewer modalities (e.g., only MRI) is considered a student. 
Our proposed MKD framework includes three key components: First, we design a teacher model that is student-oriented, namely the Student-oriented Multi-modal Teacher (SMT), through multi-modal information disentanglement. 
Second, we train the student model by not only minimizing its classification errors but also learning from the SMT teacher. 
Third, we update the teacher model by transfer learning from the student’s feature extractor because the student model is trained with more samples. 
Evaluations on Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) datasets highlight the effectiveness of our method. 
Our work demonstrates the potential of using AI for addressing the challenges of incomplete multi-modal neuroimage datasets, opening new avenues for advancing early AD detection and treatment strategies.
